# Summary Notes from the Partner Workshop 01-03-2023
Project-Origin met with two implementers from Energy Origin (Github: [Energinet GreenForce - Energy Origin](https://github.com/Energinet-DataHub/energy-origin))

### Integration of the registry into Energy Origin – Main points
-	Decided to have a public key infrastructure outside of Project Origin
-	Plans to use the registry as "source of truth" for updating internal states.
  - See bottom diagram [here](https://github.com/Energinet-DataHub/energy-origin/blob/main/doc/architecture/domains/certificates.md)
- Expects a "success or not success" message to come back from the registry (rather fast).
  - Wants to find a solution for making the registry communicate a log back if something goes wrong.
  - Data put on blockchain with Merkle Trees/Pedersen Commitments makes data non-retrievable. 
- Needs a running instance, to start working on the registry integration.
  - There should be a dev container usable for getting it up and running. 
  - A block chain key is needed to do so
    - A related question here is, how will this requirement impact the OSS environment Project-Origin is trying to build? 
- Workshop with the implementer group to uncover any unresolved issues.
- Question: How to include geolocation? For now, there is an attribute, "grid area", in the registry implementation.
  - Answer: There will be a political “how to do it in the future” and “what we do now” that needs to be figured out before a proper implementation can happen in this aspect.
  - There seemed to be agreement to do it in “a simple way” for now.
- Question: Should Energy Origin or Project Origin provide a service for handling portfolio optimization/management? 
  - Answer: In Project-Origin we haven't addressed that - it makes sense to have somewhere but not necessarily in either of the projects.
  - There seemed to be agreement that our most important job is to provide APIs not necessarily providing the actual functionality here - actors could/are expected to step in and do that.
 
 
### Project-Origin next steps agreed:
- Develop functionality to make audits/accounting possible.
- Divide Project-Origin into 1) A generic part, and 2) A domain-specific part, to avoid drifting.
  - And find out what is missing in each of those parts.
- Create a demonstrator to show what is possible with the registry functionality.
  - In collaboration with the Energy Origin team.
- The registry is designed to ensure trust and security. Now we need to figure out how to use it.
  - The group agrees on looking into potential use cases.
- Decide where the registry should exist.
  - Decentralized? (On the meters themselves?
  - Centralized? 
- Invite university partnerships into the project. 
- Draw in stakeholders to provide feedback and inputs to the registry functionality.
- Enable broader contribution and enable use for: “the greater good” in the open-source context.
  - Share more of the decision process.
  - Invite and interact with actors in Github.
  - Make it easier to contribute for participants outside of Energinet.
    - Should it be possible to create a hosted instance from anywhere? 
- Find out: How can we test the system to know if it works well?
- Prioritize the communication part of Project-Origin
  - Storytelling is crucial, but currently mostly missing.
  - How can we tell everyone about how great this project is, without making it super-technical?
  - The project will be presented at a Linux Foundation of Energy conference.
    - There was a suggestion to extend engagement in this aspect, by doing a “Project-Origin intro-webinar” and inviting stakeholders to it.

### Unresolved questions:
- Public keys - where/who will maintain and be responsible for these? 
- Where should the registry exist? At a centralized or decentralized location?
- If accountant/auditor, which information should they then have access to? And how to provide that? 
  - Functionality to delegate access to third parties such as accountant to see what is going on in event stream and verify that against the value on ledger. 
- How can we make the project progress more robust? Load balancing? training more people?

